#include<stdio.h>
#include<stdlib.h>
#include<math.h>

#define ROWS 30
#define COLS 60

char canvas[ROWS][COLS];

/*Initialize canvas*/
void initCanvas()
{
   int i,j;
   for(i=0;i<ROWS;i++)
     for(j=0;j<COLS;j++)
        canvas[i][j]='_';
}

/*Display canvas*/
void displayCanvas()
{
   int i,j;

   pritf("\n");
   for(i=0;i<ROWS;i++)
   {
     for(j=0;j<COLS;j++)
       printf("%c",canvas[i][j]);
     printf("\n");
    }
}

/*Plot a point*/
void plot(int x, int y, char ch)
{
  if(x>=o && x<COLS && y>=0 && y<ROWS)
    canvas[y][x]=ch;
}

/*Draw Rectangle*/
void drawRectangle(int x, int y, int width, int height, char ch)
{
   int i;
   for(i=x;i<=x+width;i++)
   {
     plot(i,y,ch);
     plot(i, y+height, ch);
    }
    for(i=y; i<y+height; i++)
    {
      plot(x, i, ch);
      plot(x+width, i, ch);
     }
}

/*Draw Line - Bresenham*/
void drawLine(int x1, int y1c, int x2, int y2, char ch)
{
   int dx = abs(x2 - x1);
   int dy = abs(y2 - y1);

   int sx = (x1 < x2)?1:-1;
   int sy = (y1 < y2)?1:-1;

   int err = dx - dy;

   while(1)
   {
      plot(x1, y1, ch);

      if(x1==x2 && y1==y2)
        break;

      int e2 = 2*err;
      if(e2>-dy)
      {
         err-=dy;
         x1+=sx;
       }
       if(e2<dx)
       {
          err+=dx;
          y1+=sy;
        }
      }
}

/*Draw Circle - Midpoint Circle*/
void drawCircle(int xc, int yc, int r, char ch)
{
   int x = 0;
   int y = r;
   int d = 1-r;
   while(x<=y)
   {
      plot(xc+x, yc+y, ch);
      plot(xc-x, yc+y, ch);
      plot(xc+x, yc-y, ch);
      plot(xc-x, yc-y, ch);

      plot(xc+y, yc+x, ch);
      plot(xc-y, yc+x, ch);
      plot(xc+y, yc-x, ch);
      plot(xc-y, yc-x, ch);

      if(d<0)
         d+=2*x+3;
      else
      {
        d+=2*(x-y)+5;
        y--;
       }
       x++;
     }
}

/*Draw Triangle*/
void drawTriangle(int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2, int x3, int y3, char ch)
{
   drawLine(x1, y1, x2, y2, ch);
   drawLine(x2, y2, x3, y3, ch);
   drawLine(x3, y3, x1, y1, ch);
}

int main()
{
   int choice;
   initCanvas();
   while(1)
   {
     printf("\n=====2D GRAPHICS EDITOR=====\n");
     printf("1. Draw Rectangle\n");
     printf("2. Draw Line\n");
     printf("3. Draw Circle\n");
     printf("4. Draw Triangle\n");
     printf("5. Delete Rectangle\n");
     printf("6. Delete Line\n");
     printf("7. Delete Circle\n");
     printf("8. Delete Triangle\n");
     printf("9. Display Canvas\n");
     printf("10. Clear Canvas\n");
     printf("0. Exit\n");

     printf("Enter choice:");
     scanf("%d", &choice);
     switch(choice)
     {
       case 1:
       {
         int x, y, w, h;
         printf("Enter xy width height:");
         scanf("%d%d%d%d",&x, &y, &w, &h);
         drawRectangle(x,y,w,h,'*');
         break;
       }
       case 2:
       {
         int x1, y1, x2, y2;
         printf("Enter x1 y1 x2 y2:");
         scanf("%d%d%d%d", &x1, &y1, &x2, &y2);
         drawLine(x1, y1, x2, y2, '*');
         break;
       }
       case 3:
       {
         int xc, yc, r;
         printf("Enter centerX centerY radius:");
         scanf("%d%d%d", &xc, &yc, &r);
         drawCircle(xc, yc, r, '*');
         break;
       }
       case 4:
       {
         int x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3;
         printf("Enter x1 y1 x2 y2 x3 y3:");
         scanf("%d%d%d%d%d%d", &x1, &y1, &x2, &y2, &x3, &y3);
         drawTriangle(x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3, '*');
         break;
       }

       /*Delete operations*/
       case 5;
       {
         int x, y, w, h;
         printf("Enter rectangle details:");
         scanf("%d%d%d%d",&x, &y, &w, &h);
         drawRectangle(x, y, w, h, '_');
         break;
       }
       case 6:
       {
         int x1, y1, x2, y2;
         printf("Enter line details:");
         scanf("%d%d%d%d",&x1, &y1, &x2, &y2);
         drawLine(x1, y1, x2, y2, '_');
         break;
       }
       case 7:
       {
         int xc, yc, r;
         printf("Enter circle details:");
         scanf("%d%d%d", &xc, &yc, &r);
         drawCircle(xc, yc, r, '_');
         break;
        }
        case 8:
        {
          int x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3;
          printf("Enter triangle details:");
          scanf("%d%d%d%d%d%d", &x1, &y1, &x2, &y2, &x3, &y3);
          drawTriangle(x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3, '_');
          break;
         }
         case 9:
          displayCanvas();
          break;

         case 10:
           initCanvas();
           printf("Canvas cleared.\n");
           break;

         case 0:
           exit(0);

         default:
           printf("Invalid choice!\n");
        }
}

        
    

